---
layout: post
title: 'Now That''s What I Call A Shit Album Cover! '
date: '2020-03-25T00:00:00+00:00'
permalink: now_thats
---
This morning I was browsing Amazon and I was recommended something that seemed pretty interesting, a reissue of "Now That's What I Call Music! 5". I'm not all that interested in pop music, it was the album cover that caught my attention. I was blown away by the fact that this album cover is actually... to put it bluntly...  designed! If you've never seen a "Now That's What I Call Music!" cover, they all look exactly the same, and they have for the last 30-ish years. It seems they decided at around 1991 (for "Now...! 20") that they would stick to the current "3D text" style that we see today, which would be fine if the images on the front of current day albums weren't so violent to your eyes. The cover shown above in Now...! 5, is a very very 80's cover, the type, the shapes, the colours, it screams 80s (which is likely why they're reissuing it soon as 80s nostialgia is pretty popular right now). There are some good/interesting design choices, like their pig DJ mascot in general looks good, the interesting slanted type composition which is reminiscent of some Bauhaus and constructivist posters, the way that each individual artist listed on the pig's shirt is in it's own distinct typeface, giving the cover personality and credit to the artists who made the music, and they've managed to do that without it looking overly messy! This cover is very very good at representing the songs in the album. Even though some of the main elements are the same between the album covers, the 3D type for example, the original Now...! 20 cover still feels far better designed because it is respecting the viewier/listener in a way that the current day ones just don't. The Now...! 20 album was released in 1991, so using a custom 3D render in this way would've been considered quite experimental for an album cover of that time, and on top of that they're using a glass-like material in the render, adding just enough complexity to the image to make it interesting, with enough negative space in the background to not overload your eyes. The visual heirarchy is clear: you know exactly what you need to focus on first, the "20" type, it is biggest and brightest, then the "NOW" as it's the next biggest, brightest and has slightly more detail, and so on. That said it is still clearly a compilation album, there are no themes to communicate other than "pop music", and it doesn't try to communicate anything else, the music itself is pure aesthetic, just like the cover on the sleeve. They also don't seem to try and represent the music on the album like they did in Now...! 5, which is interesting. The covers for Now...! 103 - Now...! 105 on the flip side, seem to have zero respect for anyone. (It also blows my mind that a 3D render from 1991 is more realistic and better deisgned than images from the same company in 2019-2020). The composition is noticably different in the way that we are now looking almost directly at the 3D rendered type, and in every cover it is angled in the exact same way. The typeface they're using now is different to that of the one they used in earlier covers, I have no clue what it is but it hardly matters because the 3D bevel and metalic material effects they have on it make it look absolutely ugly. The type also extends deeper into 3D space, I assume that's purely just to fill up that space, I can't imagine it's for any other reason really. They also seem to feel to the need to  inject some kind of energy into the image by using some kind of physics object, i.e. the metalic blanket in Now...! 103, the metalic liquid in Now...! 104, and the lava-lamp bubbles in Now...! 105. In fact there's an overuse of metallic objects in general, seemingly without any care or thought for how to make hard surfaces look believable/good, as opposed to the effort they put into the glass Now...! 20 cover. In general the covers are such low effort that I don't even know why I'm bothering to review them, Virgin/EMI wont care or change. I'm now going to list things that confuse me about newer Now...! covers. I honestly don't know what is happeing in the ad for Now...! 104, why is there a bunch of metalic liquid in a weird angular metal tunnel? At least the beach scene in 103 makes some kind of sense, but it seems they've recently given up on even theming their covers at all and are now just throwing stuff into Cinema 4D once every few months. They didn't even bother to make a motion graphics ad for 105. What is happening in the ad for 101?! Why is it in space?! Why are there penguins living in igloos in the cover and ad for 95?! Am I the only one seeing this?! Am I high?! Just to remind you, there was a time where they put some kind of effort into these compilation albums, I think the best one conceptually is Now...! 6 (1985), at the rise of punk and the height of popular rock with artists like Queen and Elton John, the cover and TV ad for Now...! 6 have a clear theme which they carry through in its entirety. The cover is, Like Now...! 5, very well designed, it's clear, it's concise, and it's thematic and represents the music on the album pretty damn well. Even the tagline is great, "feel the quality", like the leather shown on the cover! Ugh. You get the point. You can see from Now...! 6 onwards that they experiment more and more with 3D in their TV adverts, but the covers are consistently interesting, and represent the music/time until about Now...! 20/21, where they go all in on the 3D type and quickly put themselves into a box (haha) where the cover is the same for every release. I highly recommend having a look at the NOW...! website, where they have a catalogue of every one of their albums, click numbered, scroll all the way to the bottom and then slowly make your way up to present day ablums. https://www.nowmusic.com/albums/ I don't have much else to say really, I like the covers of the main numbered series from Now...! 5 to Now...! 17 a lot, they're pretty interesting and represent the era well. I just hope that the people behind today's Now...! projects take a look at their back catalogue, and decide to make something better than what they're currently making.
This was only supposed to be a short post about me discovering that Now...! actually used to care about their products, oops.
